In this video, we're going to see how to use row operations to simplify a determinant
calculation, so to compute the determinant of this three by three matrix,
we might look at this. And notice that the first row is entirely divisible by
two. So you might think that dividing the first row by two is going to simplify our calculations.
So. Really, what we want to do is think about a multiplication
operation. That is going to encompass this.
So really, what we would like to do, I mean, just write the second row  the same here.
We want to think about dividing that first row by two or maybe another way to
to say that is factoring a two out of there so that we'd really like this to be a one, two
and three. Now, in order to make this the same as what we had before,
factoring that two out, really multiplying this by a matrix
that multiplies the first row by two.
I mean, quickly check that the product of these two matrices is the original one.
Now we know that the determinant of a product is a product of the determinants. So we can quickly compute the determinant
of our diagonal matrix over here, which we know to be two.
And this would be two times the determinant of the simplermatrix.
1 2 3;  1 0 3 and 0 3 4.
Now, as
you get more proficient at this, you won't need to write down this intermediate step every single time and just jump straight
from the first one to the third one where you factor that 2 out. But in this video, I wanted to write it down explicitly
so we can see exactly what's going on. Now, the next
thing we might want to try and do is look at this first column and see
that if we subtracted, say, the first row from the second row, then our first column
would just be a standard basis vector. So in this case,
we want to do the same kind of thing. And write this as a product
of two matrices.
And so the result, we want to leave the first row and the third row alone. 0
3 4 and we want to subtract that first row from the second
row, which would leave us with a zero and a negative two and zero.
So interpreting that as a matrix multiplication.
Let's see. To make these the same, we have to have a positive one here
as the inverse of that subtraction operation.
Now, the good news is this matrix. On the left has a determinant of one
because it's representing that shearing operation. So we just end up with two times the determinnt.
1 2 3 ; 0 -2 0; and 0 3 4
And again, as soon as you start doing
a few of these, you're gonna be skipping this intermediate step here. So.
In general, what we might try and do is write down determinant of
2 4 6; 1 0 3;  0 3 4.
We would factor that 2 out of the first row.
So we'd have 1 2 3; 1 0 3; 0 3 4.
And then we would just do that row operation that we know does not alter the determinant.
First and third row are the same and we would have zero a negative two and
zero. So again, what's written in blue here is absolutely
OK. And then what we did in black was just kind of the very detailed
reasoning to go along with all that.